>> In the field of research
being done on intention
and manifesting, Lynne
McTaggart is legendary.
Her latest intention
experiment sought
to bring peace to
a polarized America
right before the
presidential inauguration.
Those results and more on "The
Power of Group Intention."
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Lynne McTaggart is a journalist
and best-selling author
world-renowned for
her groundbreaking
work on consciousness and
the power of intention.
She is also the architect
of The Intention Experiment,
a global laboratory
involving thousands
of participants testing
the power of group thoughts
to heal the world.
Her research has repeatedly
shown the profound effect
thoughts have on reality.
>> We're all a batch of
vibrating packets of energy.
So there's nothing solid
or stable about us.
There's nothing solid or
stable about the world.
And in between
different objects is
a giant quantum energy field.
We're all in the field,
and our subatomic particles
make up the field.
So, because we
are energy, energy
is changing at every moment
at the subatomic level.
Nothing is an
actual anything yet.
It's every possible
state all at once.
And what they've
found is what turns
that potential of something into
something real is an observer.
So our consciousness,
our ability to observe,
our ability to intend,
also makes us a creator.
>> Lynne's intention
experiments,
running since 2007, are
some of the first controlled
explorations of the
power of mass intention.
In these experiments,
she invites an audience
to send a specific
thought to affect
a target, after which
a team of scientists
calculate the results to
measure possible change.
>> I've run 40
intention experiments,
everything from trying to make
plants grow faster and seeds
grow faster, to purifying
water, to lowering violence
in war-torn areas
or violent areas,
to even healing someone of PTSD.
And of those 40, 35 have shown
measurable, positive, mostly
significant effects
as measured by teams
of scientists in different
prestigious universities.
So we've got lots of evidence
that thoughts are things
that affect other things.
>> Of particular significance to
Lynne is her peace experiments,
which include the two she has
now done on the 10th and 20th
anniversaries of 9/11.
>> What I have observed
since 2011 was,
when I bring warring tribes
together to do an intention
together, they start
forgiving each other.
So I first did that
with Arabs and Americans
with the 10th
anniversary of 9/11.
And we sent intention to
two southern provinces
in Afghanistan, which were
the most violent areas
of Afghanistan.
Now, studies from
NATO afterward showed
very intriguing
evidence, which showed
a huge lowering of violence
in just those two provinces.
But in my mind, the most
important and interesting part
of the study was that the
Arabs and the Americans
started writing to each other
on my instant messenger pages.
They started
befriending each other,
and they started
forgiving each other.
>> Her most recent intention
experiment was done around
the time of the 2021
presidential inauguration
to try to bring together
polarized Americans.
>> Right before
the inauguration,
after we had that
storming of the Capitol,
I invited Republicans,
Democrats,
members of the police, African
Americans, a former jihadist--
we had people of all political
persuasions coming together,
doing an intention for
peace at the Capitol
for the inauguration.
And it was an
extraordinary lovefest.
>> While it's difficult to
prove that the lack of violence
at the inauguration was
tied to this experiment,
what is clear is the profound
effect it had on each
of the participants.
A majority have reported
extraordinary improvements
in their health and well-being.
Everyone involved expressed
feeling less divided.
The effects of all
these peace experiments
have been significant, both on
a mass and individual scale.
>> From 2008, I started
surveying the audience to say,
well, how was that for you?
And I was astounded
to see that people
were having extraordinary
changes in their lives.
They made up with
estranged partners.
They were more connected
to their not-so-nice boss.
They were hugging
strangers, essentially.
Just about half
every single time
say they are more
loving with everyone
they come into contact with.
So that involvement
in a peace experiment
reflected back on
them, and their lives
became more peaceful.
>> What is it that accounts for
these transformational effects?
>> I think that there's
several pieces here.
I think a giant piece
is intention, of course,
our ability to be creators.
A second big piece
here is altruism.
You know, we are so
involved in self-help
in the personal
development world,
and we don't think
much about other help.
But other help isn't
just a nice thing to do.
All the studies show that when
you do things for other people,
no matter how small, you
live a longer, healthier,
happier life.
Group effect-- I mean,
I've been fascinated
to see groups create
remarkable change.
>> Can these effects be seen
when done in smaller groups?
Lynne first tested
this idea in 2008,
when she first began her
Power of Eight groups,
in which people in small
groups send and receive
healing intentions.
Since then, she has seen some
truly astounding results.
>> We experimented, and I've
experimented and now put
thousands of people in groups.
We've had extraordinary
healings, everything
from people getting up
out of their wheelchair,
to reversing stage 4 cancer,
to healing life-threatening
sepsis.
I think it's this
powerful element of being
able to give and receive
>> More on the extraordinary
power of intention in these
small groups in part 2 of our
special investigation of "The
Power of Group Intention."
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
>> For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.